---

layout: post
title: Firewall
category: Networking
---

Configure Firewall with firewalld
----------------------------------

### Installation

The first step is to install the `firewalld` package on your system. You can do this using the following command:
```sh
dnf -y install firewalld
```
Once the installation is complete, you need to enable and start the `firewalld` service:
```sh
systemctl enable --now firewalld
```
### View Current Firewall Settings

You can view your current firewall settings using the following command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --list-all
```
This command will display all the active zones, services, and ports that are allowed in your firewall.

### Open Service: HTTP

To open a service such as HTTP, you can use the `--add-service` option followed by the name of the service. For example, to open the HTTP service, you can run the following 
command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=http
```
This will add the `http` service to the `public` zone and make it permanent.

### Open Port: 80 (TCP)

To open a specific port, you can use the `--add-port` option followed by the port number and protocol (`tcp` or `udp`). For example, to open port 80 for TCP traffic, you can 
run the following command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=80/tcp
```
This will add port 80 to the `public` zone and make it permanent.

### Close Service: HTTP

To close a service such as HTTP, you can use the `--remove-service` option followed by the name of the service. For example, to close the HTTP service, you can run the 
following command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --remove-service=http
```
This will remove the `http` service from the `public` zone and make it permanent.

### Close Port: 80 (TCP)

To close a specific port, you can use the `--remove-port` option followed by the port number and protocol (`tcp` or `udp`). For example, to close port 80 for TCP traffic, you 
can run the following command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --remove-port=80/tcp
```
This will remove port 80 from the `public` zone and make it permanent.

### Reload

Once you have made changes to your firewall settings, you need to reload the firewall to apply the changes. You can do this by running the following command:
```sh
firewall-cmd --reload
```
This will reload the firewall configuration and update the firewall rules accordingly.
